Intermediate SQL
In CASE of rivalry
Barcelona and Real Madrid have been rival teams for more than 80 years. 
Matches between these two teams are given the name El Clásico (The Classic). 
In this exercise, you will query a list of matches played between these two rivals.

You will notice in Step 2 that when you have multiple logical conditions in a CASE statement, 
you may quickly end up with a large number of WHEN clauses to logically test every outcome you are interested in. 
It's important to make sure you don't accidentally exclude key information in your ELSE clause.

In this exercise, you will retrieve information about matches played between Barcelona (id = 8634) and Real Madrid (id = 8633). 
Note that the query you are provided with already identifies the Clásico matches using a filter in the WHERE clause.

Instructions 1/2
Complete the first CASE statement, identifying Barcelona or Real Madrid as the home team using the hometeam_id column.
Complete the second CASE statement in the same way, using awayteam_id.


Show Answer (-35 XP)
Hint
Your CASE statement should identify the first team, FC Barcelona, and the second team in the ELSE clause as Real Madrid CF. 
Therefore, your WHEN statement should use the home/away team ID that matches the alias.

SELECT 
	date,
	-- Identify the home team as Barcelona or Real Madrid
	CASE WHEN hometeam_id = 8634 THEN 'FC Barcelona' 
        ELSE 'Real Madrid CF' END AS home,
    -- Identify the away team as Barcelona or Real Madrid
	CASE WHEN awayteam_id = 8634 THEN 'FC Barcelona' 
        ELSE 'Real Madrid CF' END AS away
FROM matches_spain
WHERE (awayteam_id = 8634 OR hometeam_id = 8634)
      AND (awayteam_id = 8633 OR hometeam_id = 8633);

Instructions 2/2
50 XP
Construct the final CASE statement identifying who won each match. 
Note there are 3 possible outcomes, but 5 conditions that you need to identify.
Fill in the logical operators to identify Barcelona or Real Madrid as the winner.

SELECT 
	date,
	CASE WHEN hometeam_id = 8634 THEN 'FC Barcelona' 
         ELSE 'Real Madrid CF' END as home,
	CASE WHEN awayteam_id = 8634 THEN 'FC Barcelona' 
         ELSE 'Real Madrid CF' END as away,
	-- Identify all possible match outcomes
	CASE WHEN home_goal > away_goal AND hometeam_id = 8634 THEN 'Barcelona win!'
        WHEN home_goal > away_goal AND hometeam_id = 8633 THEN 'Real Madrid win!'
        WHEN home_goal < away_goal AND awayteam_id = 8634 THEN 'Barcelona win!'
        WHEN home_goal < away_goal AND awayteam_id = 8633 THEN 'Real Madrid win!'
        ELSE 'Tie!' END AS outcome
FROM matches_spain
WHERE (awayteam_id = 8634 OR hometeam_id = 8634)
      AND (awayteam_id = 8633 OR hometeam_id = 8633);

Filtering your CASE statement
Let's generate a list of matches won by Italy's Bologna team! 
There are quite a few additional teams in the two tables, so a key part of generating a usable query will 
be using your CASE statement as a filter in the WHERE clause.

CASE statements allow you to categorize data that you're interested in -- and exclude data you're not interested in. 
In order to do this, you can use a CASE statement as a filter in the WHERE statement to remove output you don't want to see.

Here is how you might set that up:

SELECT *
FROM table
WHERE 
    CASE WHEN a > 5 THEN 'Keep'
         WHEN a <= 5 THEN 'Exclude' END = 'Keep';

In essence, you can use the CASE statement as a filtering column like any other column in your database. 
The only difference is that you don't alias the statement in WHERE.

Instructions 1/3
Identify Bologna's team ID listed in the teams_italy table by selecting the team_long_name and team_api_id.

-- Select team_long_name and team_api_id from team
SELECT
	team_long_name,
	team_api_id
FROM teams_italy
-- Filter for team name
WHERE team_long_name = 'Bologna';

Instructions 2/3
Select the season and date that a match was played.
Complete the CASE statement so that only Bologna's home and away wins are identified.

-- Select the season and date columns
SELECT 
	season,
	date,
    -- Identify when Bologna won a match
	case when hometeam_id = 9857 and home_goal > away_goal then 'Bologna Win'
		when awayteam_id = 9857 and away_goal > home_goal then 'Bologna Win' 
		end AS outcome
FROM matches_italy;

Instructions 3/3
Select the home_goal and away_goal for each match.
Use the CASE statement in the WHERE clause to filter all NULL values generated by the statement in the previous step.

-- Select the season, date, home_goal, and away_goal columns
SELECT 
	season,
    date,
	home_goal,
	away_goal
FROM matches_italy
WHERE 
-- Exclude games not won by Bologna
	case when hometeam_id = 9857 and home_goal > away_goal then 'Bologna Win'
		when awayteam_id = 9857 and away_goal > home_goal then 'Bologna Win' 
		end IS NOT null;

COUNT using CASE WHEN
Do the number of soccer matches played in a given European country differ across seasons? 
We will use the European Soccer Database to answer this question.

You will examine the number of matches played in 3 seasons within each country listed in the database. 
This is much easier to explore with each season's matches in separate columns. 
Using the country and unfiltered match table, you will count the number of matches played in each country during the 2012/2013, 2013/2014, 
and 2014/2015 match seasons.

Instructions 1/2
Create a CASE statement that identifies the id of matches played in the 2012/2013 season. Specify that you want ELSE values to be NULL.
Wrap the CASE statement in a COUNT function and group the query by the country alias.

SELECT 
	c.name AS country,
    -- Count games from the 2012/2013 season
	COUNT(CASE WHEN m.season = '2012/2013' 
        	THEN m.id ELSE null end) AS matches_2012_2013
FROM country AS c
LEFT JOIN match AS m
ON c.id = m.country_id
-- Group by country name alias
GROUP BY country;

Instructions 2/2
Create 3 CASE WHEN statements counting the matches played in each country across the 3 seasons.
END your CASE statement without an ELSE clause.

SELECT 
	c.name AS country,
    -- Count matches in each of the 3 seasons
	count (case when m.season = '2012/2013' then m.id end) AS matches_2012_2013,
	count(case when m.season = '2013/2014' then m.id end) AS matches_2013_2014,
	count(case when m.season = '2014/2015' then m.id end) AS matches_2014_2015
FROM country AS c
LEFT JOIN match AS m
ON c.id = m.country_id
-- Group by country name alias
group by country;

COUNT and CASE WHEN with multiple conditions
In R or Python, you have the ability to calculate a SUM of logical values (i.e., TRUE/FALSE) directly. 
In SQL, you have to convert these values into 1 and 0 before calculating a sum. This can be done using a CASE statement.

There's one key difference when using SUM to aggregate logical values compared to using COUNT in the previous exercise --

Your goal here is to use the country and match table to determine the total number of matches won by the home team in each country during the 2012/2013, 2013/2014, 
and 2014/2015 seasons.

Instructions
Create 3 CASE statements to "count" matches in the '2012/2013', '2013/2014', and '2014/2015' seasons, respectively.
Have each CASE statement return a 1 for every match you want to include, and a 0 for every match to exclude.
Wrap the CASE statement in a SUM to return the total matches played in each season.
Group the query by the country name alias.

SELECT 
	c.name AS country,
    -- Sum the total records in each season where the home team won
	sum(case when m.season = '2012/2013' AND m.home_goal > m.away_goal 
        THEN 1 ELSE 0 END) AS matches_2012_2013,
 	SUM(case when m.season = '2013/2014' AND m.home_goal > m.away_goal  
        THEN 1 ELSE 0 END) AS matches_2013_2014,
	SUM(case when m.season = '2014/2015' AND m.home_goal > m.away_goal 
        THEN 1 ELSE 0 END) AS matches_2014_2015
FROM country AS c
LEFT JOIN match AS m
ON c.id = m.country_id
-- Group by country name alias
GROUP BY country;


Calculating percent with CASE and AVG
CASE statements will return any value you specify in your THEN clause. 
This is an incredibly powerful tool for robust calculations and data manipulation when used in conjunction with an aggregate statement. 
One key task you can perform is using CASE inside an AVG function to calculate a percentage of information in your database.

Here's an example of how you set that up:

AVG(CASE WHEN condition_is_met THEN 1
         WHEN condition_is_not_met THEN 0 END)
With this approach, it's important to accurately specify which records count as 0, otherwise your calculations may not be correct!

Your task is to examine the number of wins, losses, and ties in each country. 
The matches table is filtered to include all matches from the 2013/2014 and 2014/2015 seasons.

Instructions 1/3
Create 3 CASE statements to COUNT the total number of home team wins, away team wins, and ties. 
This will allow you to examine the total number of records. You will convert this to an AVG in the next step.

SELECT 
    c.name AS country,
    -- Count the home wins, away wins, and ties in each country
	COUNT(CASE WHEN m.home_goal > m.away_goal THEN m.id 
        END) AS home_wins,
	COUNT(CASE WHEN m.home_goal < m.away_goal THEN m.id 
        END) AS away_wins,
	COUNT(CASE WHEN m.home_goal = m.away_goal THEN m.id 
        END) AS ties
FROM country AS c
LEFT JOIN matches AS m
ON c.id = m.country_id
GROUP BY country;

Instructions 2/3
Calculate the percentage of matches tied using a CASE statement inside AVG.
Fill in the logical operators for each statement. Alias your columns as ties_2013_2014 and ties_2014_2015, respectively.

SELECT 
	c.name AS country,
    -- Calculate the percentage of tied games in each season
	AVG(CASE WHEN m.season='2013/2014' AND m.home_goal = m.away_goal THEN 1
			WHEN m.season='2013/2014' AND m.home_goal != m.away_goal THEN 0
			END) AS ties_2013_2014,
	AVG(CASE WHEN m.season='2014/2015' AND m.home_goal = m.away_goal THEN 1
			WHEN m.season='2014/2015' AND m.home_goal != m.away_goal THEN 0
			END) AS ties_2014_2015
FROM country AS c
LEFT JOIN matches AS m
ON c.id = m.country_id
GROUP BY country;

Instructions 3/3
The previous "ties" columns returned values with 14 decimal points, which is not easy to interpret. Use the ROUND function to round to 2 decimal points.
SELECT 
	c.name AS country,
    -- Round the percentage of tied games to 2 decimal points
	round(avg(CASE WHEN m.season='2013/2014' AND m.home_goal = m.away_goal THEN 1
			 WHEN m.season='2013/2014' AND m.home_goal != m.away_goal THEN 0
			 END),2) AS pct_ties_2013_2014,
	round(avg(CASE WHEN m.season='2014/2015' AND m.home_goal = m.away_goal THEN 1
			 WHEN m.season='2014/2015' AND m.home_goal != m.away_goal THEN 0
			 END),2) AS pct_ties_2014_2015
FROM country AS c
LEFT JOIN matches AS m
ON c.id = m.country_id
GROUP BY country;

Filtering using scalar subqueries
Subqueries are incredibly powerful for performing complex filters and transformations. 
You can filter data based on single, scalar values using a subquery in ways you cannot by using WHERE statements or joins. 
Subqueries can also be used for more advanced manipulation of your data set. 
You will likely encounter subqueries in any real-world setting that uses relational databases.

In this exercise, you will generate a list of matches where the total goals scored (for both teams in total) is more than 3 times 
the average for games in the matches_2013_2014 table, which includes all games played in the 2013/2014 season.

Instructions 1/2
Calculate triple the average home + away goals scored across all matches. This will become your subquery in the next step. 
Note that this column does not have an alias, so it will be called ?column? in your results.

SELECT 
	3 * avg(home_goal + away_goal)
FROM matches_2013_2014;

Instructions 2/2
Select the date, home goals, and away goals in the main query.
Filter the main query for matches where the total goals scored exceed the value in the subquery.

SELECT 
	-- Select the date, home goals, and away goals scored
    date,
	home_goal,
	away_goal
FROM  matches_2013_2014
-- Filter for matches where total goals exceeds 3x the average
WHERE (home_goal + away_goal)  >
       (SELECT 3 * AVG(home_goal + away_goal)
        FROM matches_2013_2014); 

Filtering using a subquery with a list
Your goal in this exercise is to generate a list of teams that never played a game in their home city. 
Using a subquery, you will generate a list of unique hometeam_ID values from the unfiltered match table to exclude in the team table's team_api_ID column.

In addition to filtering using a single-value (scalar) subquery, you can create a list of values in a subquery to filter data based on a complex set of conditions. 
This type of subquery generates a one column reference list for the main query. As long as the values in your list match a column in your main query's table, you don't need to use a join -- even if the list is from a separate table.

Instructions
Create a subquery in the WHERE clause that retrieves all unique hometeam_ID values from the match table.
Select the team_long_name and team_short_name from the team table. Exclude all values from the subquery in the main query.

SELECT 
	-- Select the team long and short names
	team_long_name,
	team_short_name
FROM team 
-- Exclude all values from the subquery
WHERE team_api_id not in
     (select DISTINCT hometeam_id  FROM match);

Filtering with more complex subquery conditions
In the previous exercise, you generated a list of teams that have no home matches listed in the soccer database using a subquery in WHERE. 
Let's do some further exploration in this database by creating a list of teams that scored 8 or more goals in a home match.

In order to do this, you will construct a subquery in the WHERE statement with its own filtering condition.

Instructions
Create a subquery in WHERE clause that retrieves all hometeam_ID values from match with a home_goal score greater than or equal to 8.
Select the team_long_name and team_short_name from the team table. Include all values from the subquery in the main query.

SELECT
	-- Select the team long and short names
	team_long_name,
	team_short_name
FROM team
-- Filter for teams with 8 or more home goals
WHERE team_api_id in
	  (SELECT hometeam_id 
       FROM match
       WHERE home_goal >= 8);


Joining Subqueries in FROM
The match table in the European Soccer Database does not contain country or team names. You can get this information by joining it to the country table, 
and use this to aggregate information, such as the number of matches played in each country.

If you're interested in filtering data from one of these tables, you can also create a subquery from one of the tables, and then join it to an 
existing table in the database. A subquery in FROM is an effective way of answering detailed questions that requires filtering or transforming data before including it in your final results.

Your goal in this exercise is to generate a subquery using the match table, and then join that subquery to the country table to 
calculate information about matches with 10 or more goals in total!

Instructions 1/2
Create the subquery to be used in the next step, which selects the country ID and match ID (id) from the match table.
Filter the query for matches with greater than or equal to 10 goals.

SELECT 
	-- Select the country ID and match ID
	country_id, 
    id 
FROM match
-- Filter for matches with 10 or more goals in total
WHERE (home_goal + away_goal) >= 10;

Instructions 2/2
Construct a subquery that selects only matches with 10 or more total goals.
Inner join the subquery onto country in the main query.
Select name from country and count the id column from match.

SELECT
	-- Select country name and the count match IDs
    c.name AS country_name,
    COUNT(sub.id) AS matches
FROM country AS c
-- Inner join the subquery onto country
-- Select the country id and match id columns
inner join (SELECT m.country_id, m.id 
           FROM match as m
           -- Filter the subquery by matches with 10+ goals
           WHERE (home_goal + away_goal) >=10) AS sub
ON c.id = sub.country_id
GROUP BY country_name;

Building on Subqueries in FROM
In the previous exercise, you found that England, Netherlands, Germany and Spain were the only countries that had matches in the database 
where 10 or more goals were scored overall. Let's find out some more details about those matches -- when they were played, during which seasons, 
and how many of the goals were home vs. away goals.

You'll notice that in this exercise, the table alias is excluded for every column selected in the main query. 
This is because the main query is extracting data from the subquery, which is treated as a single table.

Instructions
Complete the subquery inside the FROM clause. Select the country name from the country table, and the home goal, and away goal columns from the match table.
Create a column in the subquery that adds home and away goals, called total_goals. This will be used to filter the main query.
Select the country, date, home goals, and away goals in the main query.
Filter the main query for games with 10 or more total goals.

SELECT
	-- Select country, date, home, and away goals from the subquery
    country,
    date,
    home_goal,
    away_goal
FROM 
	-- Select country name, date, and total goals in the subquery
	(SELECT c.name AS country, 
     	    m.date, 
     		m.home_goal, 
     		m.away_goal,
           (m.home_goal + m.away_goal) AS total_goals
    FROM match AS m
    LEFT JOIN country AS c
    ON m.country_id = c.id) AS subq
-- Filter by total goals scored in the main query
WHERE total_goals >= 10;

Add a subquery to the SELECT clause
Subqueries in SELECT statements generate a single value that allow you to pass an aggregate value down a data frame. This is useful for performing calculations on data within your database.

In the following exercise, you will construct a query that calculates the average number of goals per match in each country's league.

Instructions
In the subquery, select the average total goals by adding home_goal and away_goal.
Filter the results so that only the average of goals in the 2013/2014 season is calculated.
In the main query, select the average total goals by adding home_goal and away_goal. This calculates the average goals for each league.
Filter the results in the main query the same way you filtered the subquery. Group the query by the league name.

SELECT 
	l.name AS league,
    -- Select and round the league's total goals
    ROUND(avg(m.home_goal + m.away_goal), 2) AS avg_goals,
    -- Select & round the average total goals for the season
    (SELECT round(avg(home_goal + away_goal), 2) 
     FROM match
     where season = '2013/2014') AS overall_avg
FROM league AS l
LEFT JOIN match AS m
ON l.country_id = m.country_id
-- Filter for the 2013/2014 season
WHERE m.season = '2013/2014'
GROUP BY l.name;

Subqueries in Select for Calculations
Subqueries in SELECT are a useful way to create calculated columns in a query. 
A subquery in SELECT can be treated as a single numeric value to use in your calculations. 
When writing queries in SELECT, it's important to remember that filtering the main query does not filter the subquery -- and vice versa.

In the previous exercise, you created a column to compare each league's average total goals to the overall average goals in the 2013/2014 season. 
In this exercise, you will add a column that directly compares these values by subtracting the overall average from the subquery.

Instructions
Select the average goals scored in a match for each league in the main query.
Select the average goals scored in a match overall for the 2013/2014 season in the subquery.
Subtract the subquery from the average number of goals calculated for each league.
Filter the main query so that only games from the 2013/2014 season are included.

SELECT
	-- Select the league name and average goals scored
	l.name AS league,
	ROUND(AVG(m.home_goal + m.away_goal),2) AS avg_goals,
    -- Subtract the overall average from the league average
	ROUND(AVG(m.home_goal + m.away_goal) - 
		(SELECT avg(home_goal + away_goal)
		 FROM match 
         WHERE season = '2013/2014'),2) AS diff
FROM league AS l
LEFT JOIN match AS m
ON l.country_id = m.country_id
-- Only include 2013/2014 results
WHERE m.season = '2013/2014'
GROUP BY l.name;

ALL the subqueries EVERYWHERE
In soccer leagues, games are played at different stages. Winning teams progress from one stage to the next, until they reach the final stage. 
In each stage, the stakes become higher than the previous one. The match table includes data about the different stages that each match took place in.

In this lesson, you will build a final query across 3 exercises that will contain three subqueries -- one in the SELECT clause, 
one in the FROM clause, and one in the WHERE clause. In the final exercise, your query will extract data examining the average goals scored in each stage of a match. 
Does the average number of goals scored change as the stakes get higher from one stage to the next?

Instructions
Extract the average number of home and away team goals in two SELECT subqueries.
Calculate the average home and away goals for the specific stage in the main query.
Filter both subqueries and the main query so that only data from the 2012/2013 season is included.
Group the query by the m.stage column.

SELECT 
	-- Select the stage and average goals for each stage
	m.stage,
    ROUND(AVG(m.home_goal + m.away_goal),2) AS avg_goals,
    -- Select the average overall goals for the 2012/2013 season
    ROUND((SELECT AVG(home_goal + away_goal) 
           FROM match 
           WHERE season = '2012/2013'),2) AS overall
FROM match AS m
-- Filter for the 2012/2013 season
WHERE m.season = '2012/2013'
-- Group by stage
GROUP BY m.stage;

Add a subquery in FROM
In the previous exercise, you created a data set listing the average home and away goals in each match stage of the 2012/2013 match season.

In this next step, you will turn the main query into a subquery to extract a list of stages where the average home goals in a stage is higher 
than the overall average for home goals in a match.

Instructions
Calculate the average home goals and average away goals from the match table for each stage in the FROM clause subquery.
Add a subquery to the WHERE clause that calculates the overall average home goals.
Filter the main query for stages where the average home goals is higher than the overall average.
Select the stage and avg_goals columns from the s subquery into the main query

SELECT 
	-- Select the stage and average goals from the subquery
	s.stage,
	ROUND(s.avg_goals,2) AS avg_goals
FROM 
	-- Select the stage and average goals in 2012/2013
	(SELECT
		 stage,
         avg(home_goal + away_goal) AS avg_goals
	 FROM match
	 WHERE season = '2012/2013'
	 GROUP BY stage) AS s
WHERE 
	-- Filter the main query using the subquery
	s.avg_goals > (SELECT avg(home_goal + away_goal) 
                    FROM match WHERE season = '2012/2013');


Add a subquery in SELECT
In the previous exercise, you added a subquery to the FROM statement and selected the stages where the number of average goals in a stage exceeded the overall average number of goals in the 2012/2013 match season. In this final step, you will add a subquery in SELECT to compare the average number of goals scored in each stage to the total.

Instructions
Create a subquery in SELECT that yields the average goals scored in the 2012/2013 season. Name the new column overall_avg.
Create a subquery in FROM that calculates the average goals scored in each stage during the 2012/2013 season.
Filter the main query for stages where the average goals exceeds the overall average in 2012/2013.

SELECT 
	-- Select the stage and average goals from s
	s.stage,
    ROUND(s.avg_goals,2) AS avg_goal,
    -- Select the overall average for 2012/2013
    (select avg(home_goal + away_goal) from match WHERE season = '2012/2013') AS overall_avg
FROM 
	-- Select the stage and average goals in 2012/2013 from match
	(SELECT
		 stage,
         avg(home_goal + away_goal) AS avg_goals
	 FROM match
	 WHERE season = '2012/2013'
	 GROUP BY stage) AS s
WHERE 
	-- Filter the main query using the subquery
	s.avg_goals > (SELECT avg(home_goal + away_goal) 
                    FROM match WHERE season = '2012/2013');

Basic Correlated Subqueries
Correlated subqueries are subqueries that reference one or more columns in the main query. 
Correlated subqueries depend on information in the main query to run, and thus, cannot be executed on their own.

Correlated subqueries are evaluated in SQL once per row of data retrieved -- 
a process that takes a lot more computing power and time than a simple subquery.

In this exercise, you will practice using correlated subqueries to examine matches with scores that are extreme outliers for each country -- 
above 3 times the average score!

Instructions
100 XP
Select the country_id, date, home_goal, and away_goal columns in the main query.
Complete the AVG value in the subquery.
Complete the subquery column references, so that country_id is matched in the main and subquery.

SELECT 
	-- Select country ID, date, home, and away goals from match
	main.country_id,
    main.date,
    main.home_goal, 
    main.away_goal
FROM match AS main
WHERE 
	-- Filter the main query by the subquery
	(home_goal + away_goal) > 
        (SELECT AVG((sub.home_goal + sub.away_goal) * 3)
         FROM match AS sub
         -- Join the main query to the subquery in WHERE
         WHERE main.country_id = sub.country_id);

Correlated subquery with multiple conditions
Correlated subqueries are useful for matching data across multiple columns. In the previous exercise, you generated a list of matches with extremely high scores for each country. In this exercise, you're going to add an additional column for matching to answer the question -- what was the highest scoring match for each country, in each season?

*Note: this query may take a while to load.

Instructions
100 XP
Instructions
100 XP
Select the country_id, date, home_goal, and away_goal columns in the main query.
Complete the subquery: Select the matches with the highest number of total goals.
Match the subquery to the main query using country_id and season.
Fill in the correct logical operator so that total goals equals the max goals recorded in the subquery.

SELECT 
	main.country_id,
    main.date,
    main.home_goal,
    main.away_goal
FROM match AS main
WHERE 
	-- Filter for matches with the highest number of goals scored
(home_goal + away_goal) =
        (SELECT max(sub.home_goal + sub.away_goal)
         FROM match AS sub
         WHERE main.country_id = sub.country_id
               AND main.season = sub.season);



Nested simple subqueries
Nested subqueries can be either simple or correlated.

Just like an unnested subquery, a nested subquery's components can be executed independently of the outer query, 
while a correlated subquery requires both the outer and inner subquery to run and produce results.

In this exercise, you will practice creating a nested subquery to examine the highest total number of goals in each season, overall, 
and during July across all seasons.

Instructions
Complete the main query to select the season and the max total goals in a match for each season. Name this max_goals.
Complete the first simple subquery to select the max total goals in a match across all seasons. Name this overall_max_goals.
Complete the nested subquery to select the maximum total goals in a match played in July across all seasons.
Select the maximum total goals in the outer subquery. Name this entire subquery july_max_goals.

SELECT
	-- Select the season and max goals scored in a match
	season,
    max(home_goal + away_goal) AS max_goals,
    -- Select the overall max goals scored in a match
   (SELECT max(home_goal + away_goal) FROM match) AS overall_max_goals,
   -- Select the max number of goals scored in any match in July
   (SELECT max(home_goal+ away_goal) 
    FROM match
    WHERE id IN (
          SELECT id FROM match WHERE EXTRACT(MONTH FROM date) = 07)) AS july_max_goals
FROM match
GROUP BY season;

Nest a subquery in FROM
What's the average number of matches per season where a team scored 5 or more goals? How does this differ by country?

Let's use a nested, correlated subquery to perform this operation. In the real world, you will probably find that nesting multiple subqueries is a task 
you don't have to perform often. 
In some cases, however, you may find yourself struggling to properly group by the column you want, or to calculate information requiring multiple 
mathematical transformations (i.e., an AVG of a COUNT).

Nesting subqueries and performing your transformations one step at a time, adding it to a subquery, and then performing the next set of transformations 
is often the easiest way to yield accurate information about your data. Let's get to it!

Nest a subquery in FROM
What's the average number of matches per season where a team scored 5 or more goals? How does this differ by country?

Let's use a nested, correlated subquery to perform this operation. In the real world, you will probably find that nesting multiple subqueries 
is a task you don't have to perform often. 
In some cases, however, you may find yourself struggling to properly 
group by the column you want, or to calculate information requiring multiple mathematical transformations (i.e., an AVG of a COUNT).

Nesting subqueries and performing your transformations one step at a time, adding it to a subquery, and then performing 
the next set of transformations is often the easiest way to yield accurate information about your data. Let's get to it!

Generate a list of matches where at least one team scored 5 or more goals.
-- Select matches where a team scored 5+ goals
SELECT
	country_id,
    season,
	id
FROM match
WHERE home_goal >= 5 OR away_goal >= 5;

Instructions 2/3
Turn the query from the previous step into a subquery in the FROM statement.
COUNT the match ids generated in the previous step, and group the query by country_id and season.

-- Count match ids
SELECT
    country_id,
    season,
    count(id) AS matches
-- Set up and alias the subquery
FROM (
	SELECT
    	country_id,
    	season,
    	id
	FROM match
	WHERE home_goal >= 5 OR away_goal >= 5) as subquery
-- Group by country_id and season
GROUP BY country_id, season;

nstructions 3/3
Finally, declare the same query from step 2 as a subquery in FROM with the alias outer_s.
Left join it to the country table using the outer query's country_id column.
Calculate an AVG of high scoring matches per country in the main query.

SELECT
	c.name AS country,
    -- Calculate the average matches per season
	avg(matches) AS avg_seasonal_high_scores
FROM country AS c
-- Left join outer_s to country
left join (
  SELECT country_id, season,
         COUNT(id) AS matches
  FROM (
    SELECT country_id, season, id
	FROM match
	WHERE home_goal >= 5 OR away_goal >= 5) AS inner_s
  -- Close parentheses and alias the subquery
  GROUP BY country_id, season) as outer_s
ON c.id = outer_s.country_id
GROUP BY country;



